---
layout: post
title:  "HRadNet: A Hierarchical Radiomics-based Network for Multicenter Breast Cancer Molecular Subtypes Prediction"
date:   2023-11-08 17:25:54 +0800
categories: breast
---

Breast cancer is a heterogeneous disease, where molecular subtypes of breast cancer are closely related to the treatment and prognosis. Therefore, the goal of this work is to differentiate between luminal and non-luminal subtypes of breast cancer. The hierarchical radiomics network (HRadNet) is proposed for breast cancer molecular subtypes prediction based on dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging. HRadNet fuses multilayer features with the metadata of images to take advantage of conventional radiomics methods and general convolutional neural networks. A two-stage training mechanism is adopted to improve the generalization capability of the network for multicenter breast cancer data. The ablation study shows the effectiveness of each component of HRadNet. Furthermore, the influence of features from different layers and metadata fusion are also analyzed. It reveals that selecting certain layers of features for a specified domain can make further performance improvements. Experimental results on three data sets from different devices demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed network. HRadNet also has good performance when transferring to other domains without fine-tuning.

[Paper](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10312800)

[Code](https://github.com/SCUT-MLCLab/HRadNet)